The following is an interview by Laney Holder of
Miss Irene Taylor, her great-great-aunt, a
resident of Park Plaza Nursing Home in Mark,
Texas. Miss Taylor is 84 and a retired
schoolteacher. The date is February 15, 1975.
OK. In the year of 1864, the Great Civil War Why and
what was it all about? It concerned the freedom of
the Negro slaves. Our grandparents, the
McCullochs, are you getting it all right? The
McCullochs and the Caldwells had never owned a
slave, but they became involved. by letting the
good Presbyterian preacher tell them they should
vote to free the slaves. He only won. I got to say
this. Our grandparents, McCullochson, had never
a slave, but they became involved by letting the
good Presbyterian preacher tell them they
should. He owned one nigger slave. How did he come
by that nigger slave? Well, I don't know. That we
don't know. He only had one slave? He only had one
slave, but he told all this congregation how to
vote. He had a slave, but he wanted them to not vote?
That's right. And so they did what he told them. Of
course, he told them, I guess he got it from the
religious points you knew that it wasn't right to
keep a person in slavery. I've never heard all of
them, but they voted as he suggested. And that
caused them to lose their homes on the good farm
lands of mid-Tennessee. They were living among
people who had voted to hold the Negro in slavery,
and in so many words, they became outcasts in their
own land. They became outcasts because they voted
against... Because they voted for... To free
them? To free the Negro. The neighbors ran them
out? What is it? Did their neighbors run them out?
Yes, their neighbors all voted to hold them
because they had slaves, you see. But these people
of ours had no slaves. They were just letting folks
that had their slaves tell them what to do. They
didn't have them, they didn't know what to do. had
voted for the Negro slavery war, they became
outcasts in their land.
They lingered about
trying
to make They lingered about for two years trying to
start over and thinking maybe things would
improve on them. Did they stay there? Yeah, they
stayed around there two years and they were scared
to death. They wouldn't have stopped at anything.
committed murder or anything else, those
neighbors were, that were mad at them for voting to
get free their neighbors. Well, were the
neighbors freed then? Well, they had not known.
They were still as slaves. They were not freed
until later.
In other words, they were people without a life. So
they
decided to leave and go in search of a new home in the
wilds of the west of Texas.
With the first buds of spring, they loaded the
wagons, six or eight wagons in all. I don't know
just how many, but several wagons. They were the
McCullochs and the Caldwells. They were the kin
people, and then there were some others that went,
too. And of course, our grandparents had three
children. Four. They had four, really. Three
girls and a boy. Mama was the youngest of the girls.
And this boy was a little older than she was. And he
was the one. Well, I'll go on. Just kind of stay with
Mama. And so they decided to leave.
Because... towards the wilds of Texas. They were
headed for the wilds of Texas, the first buds of
spring. I read that one. And look, they loaded the
wagons, six or eight in number, and for safety's
sake, pledged to start cooking. You want to wait a
few minutes?
I don't know who went beside their relatives, but
there was a group that went, I'm sure, because
there wasn't such a big family of the McCullers or
such a big family of the Caldwells. They were
relatives? Yes. Our grandmother McCulloch had
been a Caldwell, and these others were her
relatives. And so they went on and started banning
the stream and it took them until, and of course the
roads were about over. But they got to, well I don't
know exactly what month, but it was sometime in the
summer. How in the world did they decide to come to
West Texas, of all places? places to come clear to
Texas, and where they came to. They came to, well,
at that time, you see, there was no towns in Texas.
The nearest one to Texas was Jefferson, Texas.
There's a Jefferson there now. But that wasn't the
town they came to, I suppose. The little place
where they came to, that's where Papa and Mama were
married. I didn't think I'd ask this question. And
all of Starksville. And I don't know where this
here is. Starksville? Starksville. Not
Clarksville, but Starksville. And I don't know
whether there's a settlement there now or not. I
don't think there is. But now that's where they
settled. And when they went to town to buy
groceries, they had to go to Jefferson, which was a
long trip away from where I was. St. Louis, Texas?
Jefferson is in deep East Texas now. Now, there's
still a Jefferson there. There's a town there.
Someday maybe you can go to Jefferson. And they
would have to go by wagon, of course, and then lay in
their supplies with, you know, for several months
at a time. Should buy flour by the barrel, sugar. I
wonder what the prices were like then. I don't
know. I don't know about that. Claire might know.
I'll ask him. There's a man in there with him, but I
don't know. Some history or something you might be
able to find out. The prices? The price of the flour
and the sugar. I was just wondering if you might...
And the bacon. Now they got bacon, I'm sure,
somewhere. Of course they raided as soon as they
could. I don't guess they took any cows with them.
And somebody mentioned they took the cows to make
them some milk for women and children. But there
were very few children in that group. My mommy was
the youngest, and I think she was 12 or 14 years old.
And there just weren't many children in that group
at all. And so, but anyway, I understand that they
took the cows and cows. And I don't guess they tried
to take a pill with that on the mansion. They did.
Well, did they homestead the land or buy it or what?
Well, now I don't know. I'll ask Claire.
They bought that man, and he knows who he bought it
from. He bought the man, the son of the man they
bought it from, lived in Rosebeck, and there's
still some people there by that name now. Hayes.
H-A-Y-S-E,
I guess. Well, and that's who they bought it from.
He said that they bought it, and I don't know the
price now. I just don't know. I can go back and ask
him if he knows anything about the price. I don't
imagine he does. And they couldn't have had much
money to bring with them because they didn't get
anything for what they
were buying. And way later on, there was a man that
said she was going to stay. She went home, went
home, and she stayed alone. That's where they
were. And they couldn't bring her out. Don't know
whether she died there or what became of her. Mama
called her Aunt Jane.
I had nothing. But anyway, she left behind some.
They're all good. Of course, it wasn't much, but it
was a whole lot. Some money later on was called for
the mountain land. That's where she had lived. And
they, a whole, and I remember when my mom or I, I
guess I remember, I've heard it talked about
though. Many of them, they got some money. And it
was put in that little farm at Thornton, it's
called. Well,
how did they get from West Texas to here? Why did
they come here? Why did they finally leave? Oh,
well, you see, it's a long story about where they
lived. They lived, I don't know how long they
lived. And then they moved from Starksville to
what was called Lamar County. They moved from
there and not so far from the Blossom. Now there's a
town in Blossom Hill. That's where a lot of- Is that
in South Texas? No, it's in North Texas. North
Central Texas. And that's where they went when
they left that little place on the border where
they stopped. And they came there and that's where
they You know, they had their land there, and they
had a good farm and made such a terrible, sad
mistake when they left their farm in Lamar County
and went west. Why didn't they make just more
opportunity? That's what they thought. They were
looking for opportunity, I suppose. And still
these band of relatives that came were all still
together.
And this, and you see, Clem and I are the only ones
that are left. And our mother's left. How many
children were in your family? In this valley, Mama
had three sisters. That's right, she had had three
sisters. And she only had two sisters, because one
had died back in, the oldest child was a girl, and it
had died back in Tennessee with whooping cough.
Somebody told them if they would, she was about 12
years old, if they would rub her chest with the
preparation of tallow and something else, and the
first turpentine of what, she would never cough.
And they did. And whatever it was. And she didn't
come. But at the end of the time, instead of getting
rid of her, six weeks getting rid of her and go off
like an ordinary child, she died. Because that
stoppage of that flea in her throat caused her...
That turpentine and talon? Talon and turpentine,
I think. I know it was talon. That he's rubbing on?
They rubbed it on her chest, made a mixture of it.
and rubbed it on her chest. And that band was not in
there anymore. I had two sisters, and she, that was
three, and the brother was just older than my mom.
My mom was the youngest of the mom. Esther,
E-S-T-H-E-R.
And the way she, her, our father had come from
Tennessee, two but not the same place in
Tennessee. And he had a relative named Taylor, her
only relative that we know of, Taylor, who was
Porter McCullough. And our daddy, and maybe I
guess our uncle Sam, that's the one that your
granddad Taylor was named for, had made And I don't
know what year they married, and I would have to
look that up. It's in the Bible, they told me. But we
haven't got that here, but you have everything.
How long do you have to work on this? Oh, a long time.
I'll be back down here. And we have the... Yes, we
have the Bible. And we also have the Lamb. The first
in the Bible. The Bible is there too. It was on the
table. Your parents' Bible? Yes. And
the table and the Lamb. We do not have the chariot.
Now we have a handmade chair, but I don't think it's
the chair that went with the table. But we
use it all the time anyway, because it's oak. And
then they were married. At that time they had a home
of their own. They would all go together. And
there's one thing about it that I never heard.
There was never a death on the way, which was
unusual for that day and time. None of them died on
the way here? No. Let me interrupt you just a
second. That was unusual for back... How long did
it take them? Well, it just says... They got here in
the summer. They left in early spring. Several
months, you know. Well, this is kind of
backtracking, but didn't they all originally
come from Scotland? Yes, yes, they did, of course.
Now, they had the ancestors had come from
Scotland. But that's, now I don't know much about
that. Don't you have the money box that Don't you
have the money box that they... Yes, we have the box
that... Now that man that...
Well, that money... He was a... This couple were
rather old, but they had a son. And they were frail.
They were very frail. But he wanted to come to the
United States to live. He felt like there was more
future in the United States for him than there was
back in that part of Scotland, I don't know. So
they sold everything they had and put it in gold in
that money box.
boarded ship and started to of course it was a
sailboat and both both parents died on the way they
can recall something a mouth disease i suppose it
was called black tongue and they both died and were
buried soon they bring their children with them
Well, no, they didn't have any. This son was the
only thing, and he had never been married. Just
they and their son, parents, McCulloch, and their
son were the ones that came. And so they all came,
but he came on. And he landed in America in about
1720.
And he invested that money, all he had in the world,
and it turned out to be worthless stock.
He lost everything? He lost everything. I said,
now, what his name was, I don't know. It may be in
some of the books at home. I don't know what his name
was. But he went on and raised a family from then on
out. That's what they're all. And then they
drifted. He drifted directly on down to where Mama
and them were living in Tennessee. Our
grandfather was named Porter. Our grandfather is
not the man that lost the gold. I know that. And our
cousin, this Rufus Taylor, the only Taylor
relative Mama ever saw, went back to Tennessee.
The father's sister? Well, no. He was our father's
first cousin. First cousin. And he went back to
Tennessee. And he wasn't, to say, involved in
this. He was in a different part. He was not
involved in the Civil War. Well, did any of your
family serve in the Civil War? Do you know? Did
which? Any of your family serve in the Civil War?
Yes. Yes, they did. But now I don't know.
Grandfather had a brother killed in the Civil War.
He was either killed or died. I don't know just how
many. I'll ask Clem. He might remember.
He was trying to get some horses out somewhere, and
he was drowned. It was during the Civil War, all
right. He was a soldier, but he was drowned, Clem
says. Instead of murdered, he was drowned. Okay.
Going back to when the family was in Blossom, where
did they move after that? Where did they leave?
Where did they go to when they left Blossom? Well,
now that's where they went to West Texas. And that
was, they went to Merkle. It's near Abilene, isn't
it? It's near Abilene. That's where they went from
there. And Clem was Now, Clem was born at Blossom.
Where was Anpot born? Well, I guess he was born
there, too. They were there a number of years. Were
they farming or ranching? No, they were farming.
As dry as it is? Well, it wasn't as dry at Blossom as
it was. Now, they got into the drought when they got
west, you know, when they went west. They had
plenty of rain at Blossom. It was plenty of rain.
And they were, I guess, clean. And then you see
there was Dorothy. She was born. She's the oldest.
She's the oldest. And the next is Bill's daddy,
our... That was Belle. And then there was a boy.
There was a boy named Porter that died. He was next
to Belle, I think. And then next was your
granddaddy. And then there was Albert, the one
that lived in Dallas. And then last of all was
Claire. And they were all born in Lamar County. Are
you the youngest? I'm the last. And Uncle Roy was
next to you? Yeah, he was just over there. And we
were born in West Texas. We were born near Abilene
in Morocco. And of these Carl Wells, I can go back to
them because they were the near relatives. Now,
they had a daughter, Carl Wells did, and she
married a man named Hudson. And she was just mama's
age. And she married this man named Hudson. They
were living in, or still living in Lamar County
when they married. And they had one child, a girl.
And that girl, that made her just about Clem's age,
87. And she lived until Christmas. She was about 87
and she lived in Fort Worth. We heard from her as
long as she was able to write. And she died just
before Christmas. We heard from her, but we don't
know the day she was buried and all, but we know. Now
that was the only one of the Carwell. There was a
bigger group in Mama's family than there was in in
the Colorado. Your mother was McCulloch?
McCulloch, M-C-C-O-W-L-O-C-H.
Why did they leave Merkle? Why did they leave
Merkle? Well, it was dry and somebody told them
Miss Clem said that Mama and Papa always depended
on this Uncle Sam that your daddy was named for. He
was a mighty fine man, but he wasn't any better
manager than the rest of them. But Papa always
depended on him a lot. So they listened to what he
said? Yeah, they listened to what he said. And he
said they ought to go to South Texas. That's when
they went to South Texas. And so a little town is
there now. See, we didn't leave there. We didn't
leave South Texas until after the 1900 storm.
That's the Galveston storm? Not Galveston. Big
storm in the 1900s.